---
layout: projects
title: Berea Chemical Inventory System
subtitle: Chemical Management and Reporting System
---

<b><u>Overview</u></b>

The Berea College Chemical Inventory System (BCCIS) has been an ongoing project developed by Kye Hoover, <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/ACoAABYsnKQB8z8_4nze1DNMufePI1gpVrJ6hh4/">Zach Ball</a> and <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/ACoAABaG7VkB3bzcxLaOkOZtSDgI6FBxgQGtuf0/">Raunak Thakur</a>.
The system was built to replace the College's antiquidated system and to keep Berea in compiance with governmental regulation.

I initially began working on the system in Ocotober of 2015 designing the database and implementing the systems framework. In the summer of 2016 Zach and Raunak joined me on the project. Now it is being deployed on a production server and will be deployed in late January of 2017. Currently the code repository is in a private Bitbucket repository this is due to Berea College's intellectual property policies. The policies are under the process of being changed, and our goal is to make this system open source in the near future.

<b><u>Design and Implementation</u></b>

  The Berea College Chemical Inventory System is built using a variety of tools and technology. The systems backend was built using the Python Flask framework. The data is stored in an SQLite database and uses the Peewee ORM to interact with it. The front-end of the system is was built using HTML, Javascript, AJAX, JQuery, and Jinja2 as our templating language.

<b><u>System Overview</u></b>

BCCIS has two primary functions, container tracking and hazard reporting.
First it tracks all chemical containers on the Berea Campus. It does this by allowing authorized users to add the contaienr to the system and specifying its hazards, location and quantity. The system then assigns the container a barcode that the user physically labels the container with. From that point on aurhtorized users can view all the chemicals and quickly idenetify if we have any contaiers of the specific chemical availbile. At anytime until the contianer is disposed of authorized users can change its quantity and location in the system. 

The second major feature is hazard reporting. To keep in compliance with governmantal regulation Berea College must keep track on what hazards are on campus. This inculdes the exact quantity of specific hazards on any given floor in a building. BCCIS keeps track of this and can generate reports to define the hazards in a given location. It also is able to notify administrators if hazards quantities are reaching critiral levels. 
